2023 BRITISH GRAND PRIX 07 - 09 July 2023 From Stewards To Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 11 Date 07 July 2023 Time 12:10 Stewards, having received report from Media Delegate, summoned (document 9) and heard from team representative, have considered following matter and determine following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Fact Late attendance of Thursday Press Conference. Infringement Breach of Article 19.1 of FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision Team reprimand. Reason Stewards received report from Media Delegate that driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), was late for Thursday Press Conference. Stewards heard from team representative and determined that driver was indeed late for Press Conference. team representative noted that his driver’s schedule was controlled by team, and given that this was his home race, schedule was extremely busy. In addition, it is difficult for Hamilton to move through paddock. While Stewards understand this to be case, it is also true that this is activity required by regulations, that late attendance is disruptive to press conference, and that there is significant interest by media in talking to drivers who’s access is limited. Stewards considered that these activities on Thursday of race weekend are different that pre-race activities which have effect on flow of competition and can provide advantage to driver’s preparation. Activities on Thursday are generally organized by teams and drivers follow instructions of their team coordinators. Therefore, Stewards determined that most appropriate penalty was to team rather than to driver. As some leeway has been given previously Stewards consider Reprimand to team to be appropriate, with warning that further penalties may be considered in case of repetition. Competitors are reminded that they have right to appeal certain decisions of Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within applicable time limits. StewardsDecisions of Stewards are taken independently of FIA and are based solely on relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. Tim Mayer Felix Holter Derek Warwick Nicky Moffitt