2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX 03 - 05 November 2023 From Stewards To Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 32 Date 03 November 2023 Time 18:45 Stewards, having received report from Race Director, summoned (documents 23 & 24) and heard from drivers and team representatives, have considered following matter and determine following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 15:17 Session Qualifying Fact Car 63 was driving slowly in pit exit and was not as far to left as possible. Infringement Breaches of Article 33.4 of FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and Article 12.2.1 i) of International Sporting Code and non-compliance with Race Director’s Event Note (item 14, document 4). Decision Drop of 2 grid positions for next Race in which driver participates. Reason Stewards heard from driver of Car 63 (George Russell), team representative and reviewed in-car video evidence. In order to avoid situations like ones that occurred in Mexico, Race Director’s Event Notes for this event contained specific clause (item 14) stipulating that it was permitted to go slow in pit exit to create gap before crossing SC2 line, however, by doing so, driver must stay as far to left as possible to allow other drivers to pass on right side. RUS was exiting pits, preparing for out lap. RUS went slow to create gap for clear lap, but did not manage to stay completely to left. As result, following car(s) were not able to overtake, as intended by Race Director’s instructions. This clearly violates wording and spirit of item 14 of Race Director’s Event Notes. Competitors are reminded that they have right to appeal certain decisions of Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within applicable time limits. Decisions of Stewards are taken independently of FIA and are based solely on relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. StewardsGerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti