No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Time 18:28 Session Qualifying Fact Could not fulfil requirement of maximum 85mm measurement (adjustable positions of uppermost rear wing element). Offence Breach of Article 3.6.3 of FIA Formula One Technical Regulations. Decision Car 44 is disqualified from results of qualifying (Art. 12.4.1 m of FIA International Sporting Code) Reason Reason Technical Delegate reported that Car 44 failed test designed to check requirements of last paragraph of Art. 3.6.3 of 2021 FIA Formula 1 Technical Regulations. check is described in Technical Directive 011-19. In lay terms, there is gap between upper and lower parts of rear wing. When DRS is not activated this gap must be between 10mm and 15mm. car passed this part of test. When DRS is activated, which raises upper element of wing to flatter position, gap must be between 10mm and 85mm. maximum gap is measured, in accordance with TD/011-19, by pushing 85mm gauge against gap with maximum load of 10N (ten newtons.) If gauge goes through then car has failed test. In this case, gauge would not pass through at inner section of wing, but did at outer section of wing. This test was repeated four times with two different gauges, once being done in presence of Stewards and representatives of Competitor. Stewards held hearing on Friday following qualifying with Ron Meadows, Competitor representative, and Simon Cole, Chief Engineer, Trackside and from FIA Jo Bauer, Technical Delegate and Nicholas Tombazis, Single Seater Technical Director. Stewards then adjourned hearing to gather more evidence and at 10:30am on Saturday morning held further hearing that also included John Owen, Chief Designer for Competitor, who testified by video conference, but did not include Joe Bauer. Competitor asserted that design is intended to meet regulations. It was clear to Stewards that additional deflection was due to additional play either in DRS actuator or pivots at end, or some combination or other fault with mechanism, or incorrect assembly of parts. Stewards heard, from both team and FIA that same design has been tested many times during season and uniformly passed. Further, FIA has examined design of area of car in question and are satisfied that design meets intent of regulation. There is therefore no question in minds of Stewards that test failure indicates any intent to exceed maximum dimension either by action or design. Competitor also noted, that Art 3.6.3 of regulation states maximum dimension, which is possible to measure without applying force or load. It is not until force is applied, that gauge is able to go through. There was no disagreement that test itself was undertaken as described in TD/011-19. gauges were measured and Stewards were satisfied that they were correct dimension. Competitor therefore argues that their car complied with regulation in static position and thus meets regulation. FIA argues that while not regulatory, TD, like many others, describes procedure for test so that competitors may design cars to meet regulations. Further, TD states that test is designed “to make sure that rear wing element does not deflect to larger opening than permitted value…”. Stewards take position that while TD is not in itself regulation, TDs are accepted as method upon which teams may rely and in this case, test that was carried out was in conformity with TD and its legitimate aims. Competitor alleged that fact that car passed test in center section of wing is both mitigating factor and shows that there was no intent to breach regulation. While Stewards accept that latter point may be true, Stewards believe that which sections failed is not relevant to fact that wing did fail test. Competitor noted that this is not systemic breach, and is indeed unique. It was, rather, something gone wrong. Competitor further noted that they would have liked to have had opportunity to inspect parts with view to having some explanation for Stewards as to how problem arose. However, Stewards fundamentally accept Competitor’s explanation that cause of failed test was something “gone wrong” rather than deliberate action. Stewards therefore chose to keep assembly under seal and preserve evidence of failure, rather than altering parts in inspection which would have involved some handling of parts and thus some alteration of evidence. final point of Competitor regarding assembly itself is that it is regular practice for FIA Technical Department to allow teams to fix minor problems that they find with their cars, even during Parc Fermé conditions of qualifying. Had Competitor recognized this problem during qualifying they surely would have sought, and FIA Technical Department confirmed, they would have received permission to fix parts or tighten bolts if needed. Stewards were sympathetic to this argument and analyzed whether they felt this was mitigating circumstance. It is often mitigating circumstance to make allowances for crash damage. However, Stewards could not extend this argument to cover parts that were found out of conformity in post session checks with no obvious reason in evidence other than considering normal running at this Event. In end, regulations are clear and at moment of conformity check, car did not comply. At end of first hearing on Friday, amateur video emerged of driver Max Verstappen touching car 44 in Parc Fermé. Stewards took time to gather all available video footage of this incident and finally reviewed in car footage from car 14, car 77, car 33 and car 44 as well as CCTV footage from FIA’s pit lane cameras, in addition to amateur footage. Stewards held separate hearing in relation to this incident and incorporate text of that decision herein. Stewards However, in summary Competitor of car 44 also agreed that it was unlikely that Verstappen’s actions caused fault, however they felt that it was open question. Stewards, however, were fully satisfied, having extensively reviewed totality of evidence regarding that incident, that it has no bearing on this case. Finally, therefore, Stewards decide that car 44 failed test indicated in TD/011- 19 and is therefore in breach of Art 3.6.3 of FIA Formula 1 Technical Regulations. Stewards agree with Competitor that this is something gone wrong, rather than intentional act or design but did not find there to be mitigating circumstances. Further, Art 1.3.3 of International Sporting Code states that “it shall be no defence to claim that no performance advantage was obtained”. Therefore, Stewards order usual penalty for technical non-compliance of Disqualification from qualifying session. Competitors are reminded that they have right to appeal certain decisions of Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within applicable time limits. Tim Mayer Matteo Perini Vitantonio Liuzzi Roberto Pupo Moreno