No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Session Practice 3 Fact Car 44 overtook Car 20 when red light was displayed. Offence Breach of Appendix L Ch IV Art 1, Appendix H 2.5.4.1.b of FIA International Sporting Code. Decision No penalty is applied. Reason Stewards heard from driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton) and team representative. Stewards reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, telemetry, team radio and in-car video. There is no dispute that Car 44 passed Car 20 directly after track was placed in Red Flag condition. driver of Car 44 stated that he was on fast lap, he saw Red Light, immediately completely lifted throttle and applied brakes, whilst checking his mirrors for cars following in close proximity. He stated that he had, in doing so, gone past Car 20. Stewards took note of precedent in relation to 2021 Dutch Grand Prix (Max Verstappen), where no action was taken against driver under similar but not identical circumstances. telemetry evidence was sourced directly from live data available to FIA not from any evidence provided by team. telemetry data clearly shows following; 1. That immediately when red light was displayed, driver lifted throttle 100% 2. That immediately when red light was displayed, driver applied firm braking pressure. 3. speed of Car 44 at this point was 288 km/h. (Car 20 had speed of 126 km/h at this point – delta of 162 km/h). StewardsIt is our conclusion that driver of Car 44 took every reasonable action to comply with regulations in that he immediately reduced speed in safe manner at earliest opportunity upon first indication of red light. Notwithstanding, technically this is still breach of Art 2.5.4.1 b of Cpt IV of Appendix H of International Sporting Code, however he could not avoid overtaking Car 20 in this case and therefore Stewards DETERMINE to apply no penalty. It is noted there was no breach of Article 37.6 of Formula 1 Sporting Regulations. Competitors are reminded that they have right to appeal certain decisions of Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within applicable time limits. Garry Connelly Felix Holter Vitantonio Liuzzi Mohamed Al Hashmi