From Stewards To Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 TeamDocument 38 Date 06 December 2020 Time 23:59 2020 SAKHIR GRAND PRIX 3 - 6 December 2020 Stewards, having received report from Technical Delegate (document 34), summoned (document 35) and heard from team representative, have considered following matter and determine following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Time 21:16 Session Race Fact Incorrect use of tyres Offence Breach of Article 24.2 and 24.3 e) of FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision fine of €20,000 is imposed on competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 team (see reasons below). Reason Stewards heard from Mr Ron Meadows (team representative) and Mr Nikolas Tombazis (FIA Formula One Technical Delegate). As described in latter’s report (document 34) Car 63 was fitted with front tyres that were allocated to Car 77. This was caused by radio communications technical issue wherein pit wall’s communication to pit crew that Car 63 was entering pits prior to (and not after) Car 77, failed to be received by crew of Car 63 because at same time, driver of Car 63 transmitted over top of that message. This resulted in front tyres of Car 77 accidentally going onto Car 63. cars were “double stacked” at time.) This is clearly breach of regulations and would normally involve sporting penalty up to Disqualification. However, in this case there are mitigating circumstances, additional to radio issue referred to above. Firstly, team rectified problem within 1 lap. This involved Car 63 making another pit stop, thus dropping it further down classification. Secondly, Car 77 made pit stop to change tyres only to find that front tyres to be fitted to it, were on Car 63, so was sent out after considerable delay, with tyres that were on Car 77 prior to pit stop. This also impacted final classification of Car 77. Thirdly, although this type of infringement is not catered for under “3 lap tolerance” referred to in second paragraph of Article 24.4 b) (which currently only refers to use of tyres of differing specifications), we consider it to be similar in nature. However, responsibility to fit tyres in compliance with regulations, still rests with Stewardsany team and thus penalty is considered as being required. It is recommended that FIA consider amending Article 24.4 b) to accommodate this type of breach when it is rectified without delay. It is noted that this type of breach has not previously been experienced in Formula One. Competitors are reminded that they have right to appeal certain decisions of Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of FIA International Sporting Code and Article 10.1.1 of FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within applicable time limits. Garry Connelly Loic Bacquelaine Mika Salo Mazen Al Hilli