No / Driver 63 - George Russell Session Qualifying Fact Alleged failing to slow under yellow flags. Infringement Breach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.5 b) of International Sporting Code and non- compliance with Race Director’s Event Notes (item 1, document 21). Decision Reprimand (Driving). Reason Stewards heard from driver of Car 63 (George Russell), team representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, telemetry and in-car video evidence. This was very similar case to decision of this panel of Stewards regarding Charles Leclerc (document 29) with some important differences. Sainz ran into runoff at Turn 2. Russell was next car on track and was fully committed to his braking, and unlike Leclerc, was already turning into corner, when yellow flag was displayed on far right of runoff. Stewards consider that there was no reasonable way for Russell to have seen that flag and even if he had, he could not have changed his braking. Once he rounded corner, Russell accelerated normally. Unlike Leclerc, however, illuminated green light panel between turn 2 and turn 3, was significant distance further down track and harder to see at point of acceleration than in case of Leclerc. But, ultimately, Russell did see green. Russell also did not get benefit of DRS in that zone because it was automatically switched off, slowing his lap. Stewards pointed out in Leclerc decision many mitigating factors. In this case, Stewards believe there is further mitigation. However, it is matter of safety that drivers understand that when they have seen car in runoff, and green light indicates that they are inside of yellow sector and that some indication, such as lift or at least limited acceleration, acknowledging that other issues can occur within yellow zone. Thus, in this limited set of circumstances, in particular that yellow flag could not have been seen, Stewards order Driving Reprimand rather than more serious Stewardspenalty. Stewards recommend that this matter be clarified in next Drivers’ meeting and note that these penalties should not represent binding precedent. Competitors are reminded that they have right to appeal certain decisions of Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within applicable time limits. Decisions of Stewards are taken independently of FIA and are based solely on relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. Tim Mayer Matteo Perini Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin