No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 13:13 Session Race Fact Tyre pressures were adjusted (pressure released) with wheels already fitted to car in contravention to TD003. Infringement Breach of Article 30.5 of FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision competitor (Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team) is fined €5,000. Reason Stewards heard from team representative of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), FIA Technical Delegate, member of his team and FIA Single Seater Director. After race start was aborted 10 minute notice was immediately given for new start. Given layout of circuit and access point to grid from pit lane time period for team to get to grid was extended. gate to access grid was not immediately opened. FIA accepted that given this short notice it was extremely difficult if not impossible for teams to follow procedure prescribed in technical directive. FIA Technical Delegate stipulated that tyre pressures while having been adjusted by team was within allowed parameters. Given unusual circumstances surrounding compressed time table, aborted start, grid access logistics and given stipulation from Technical Delegate that tyre pressures were within correct parameters, Stewards determine that fine for breach of procedure is appropriate in this case. Normally breach of this nature, within competitive session would carry sporting penalty but it is not appropriate in this case. However, this decision should not be considered as precedent for any similar breach in future as circumstances are considered unique. Competitors are reminded that they have right to appeal certain decisions of Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within applicable time limits. StewardsDecisions of Stewards are taken independently of FIA and are based solely on relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. Gerd Ennser Andrew Mallalieu Johnny Herbert Luciano Burti